[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: It's
not uncommon for a person
to have their breakthrough
as a result of illness.
In the case of Connie
Kaplan, her illness
kept her in a state of almost
constant sleep for weeks.
During that time, a very
refined and lovely system
of understanding
our human nature
was downloaded into her mind.
Being a mainstream
[INAUDIBLE,] however,
she did not want to share this
for fear of being ridiculed.
Connie Kaplan is with us today
to share her system called
The Invisible Garment.
And this is our second chat.
We're going to take it a
little deeper from where
we were last time.
But I still think we need to
give the back story for people
who did not-- because
it's a new audience.
It's been what, three years?
>>CONNIE KAPLAN: Mm-hmm.
I think so.
>>REGINA: About three years.
Give the back story as
to what happened to you.
>>KAPLAN: All right.
You want to hear
the whole story?
>>REGINA: Yeah, go for it.
>>KAPLAN: All right.
The first episode of this story
was when, as you mentioned,
I was ill.
And it was several
years, actually.
It was two years where I did
an enormous amount of sleeping.
And at that time, I was
downloaded with a body
of information about dreaming.
Several years later,
I had another sort
of mystical experience,
and this one
was at my father's deathbed.
I was alone with
him when he died,
and I heard the
door open behind me.
I was sitting at his bed.
It was predawn.
I couldn't imagine
who was coming in.
It must have been a nurse
to check his vitals.
It was 5:30 in the morning.
And there was some
energy in the room
that was just really profound.
In retrospect, I see
that it was love.
I stopped.
I got up.
I turned around.
And there were these two angels
sitting there in the room.
And it was a problem
for me, because I
didn't believe in angels.
So often, we're faced
with this choice
between going with
what we believe
and going with what
we're experiencing.
And in that particular moment, I
chose to go with my experience.
And I got a little
snide and said,
so why'd you use the door?
>>REGINA: Why didn't you
just walk through the wall
if you're such a smarty pants?
>>KAPLAN: Angels
don't need doors.
>>REGINA: And they
said, we're here
to open the portals,
all the portals.
And I kind of went,
whoa, this is big.
This is more than just
my father's death.
And it was.
They said, we have
some information
that we need you to write down.
And I wasn't really that
happy about that idea.
>>REGINA: Well, it's
important to stress here,
you were very mainstream
in your thinking.
You were not over into
the metaphysical realms
of experimentation at this time.
>>KAPLAN: True.
I was probably still a
little to the left of center,
but I wasn't--
>>REGINA: Not this far.
>>KAPLAN: I wasn't a
part of the new age.
I wasn't really that.
And that's what I
thought they wanted.
I thought they
wanted me to become
one of those channels
who sat on the stage
and had a strange voice.
And I was like, no, I could
recommend some people to you,
but I'm--
And I just kind of said,
yeah, you don't negotiate
with the angel of death.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KAPLAN: And at that
particular moment,
my consciousness was blasted
into a dimension of sound
and color and geometric shape.
That's all that was there.
But I knew that also, that was
the dimension of all answers,
of all possibilities,
and all answers.
>>REGINA: The building
blocks reality.
>>KAPLAN: Yeah.
And I knew that if
I had a question,
it would be answered
immediately.
But I couldn't think of any
questions to ask in the place
where all the answers are.
Because the answers
were already there.
So I came back from that, and
I said, OK, what do you want?
And they said, most
people are mistaken
about what a human life is.
Most people think that you're
either here to learn lessons
or you're here to do
something or you're here
to create or burn karma.
It's none of that.
You're here to deliver a
gift from the level of soul
into the level of form.
And furthermore,
you are the gift.
So your only job
in this lifetime
is to be who you are by nature.
And we need to remind
people of who they are
and how to be that.
>>REGINA: Did you find this
message came as a relief,
or was it perplexing?
>>KAPLAN: It was a
little perplexing.
What do you mean
we're not in school?
Everybody says we're in school.
>>REGINA: Aren't
we here to learn?
>>KAPLAN: Yeah, everybody
says the soul needs to learn.
And they were like,
no, no, no, no, no, no.
The soul doesn't need to
learn anything, or not
from you, anyway.
>>REGINA: Right.
[LAUGHTER]
Exactly.
>>KAPLAN: They redefined soul
for me, which was interesting.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about
that, because I was going
to bring it up later anyway.
>>KAPLAN: They said
the soul is one unified
field of consciousness.
Human soul is like one
field of consciousness
out of which we each
individually emanate.
It's not your soul and my
soul and she's an old soul
and he's a good soul.
We are all emanating from one
unified field of consciousness.
And the specific and unique
way that each of us emanates
is the gift from
the soul into form.
So they, over the course of
the next three or four months,
I woke up almost every
night and did some writing.
And eventually, this body of
information had formed itself.
>>REGINA: Did they give
it to you piecemeal?
>>KAPLAN: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: Sort of
one aspect at a time?
>>KAPLAN: Yes, and not
necessarily this and therefore
this.
It was like, this, and
then the other night,
I would write this.
And then another
night, I'd write this.
And then, it finally
came together.
It was like one big
body of information.
But it wasn't any kind of fear.
>>REGINA: That
took a lot of faith
on your part to even
stay with that project.
>>KAPLAN: Yeah.
Yeah.
I guess by the time I
started working on it,
it was so interesting to me.
It's really a fascinating thing.
Because it basically says,
at first breath, you agree to
or you sign on to give
livingness to somewhere
in the neighborhood of
12 spiritual principles
under certain rules
and regulations.
And so for example, the
main spiritual principle,
that you're here to
live, is connected
to where the sun was at
the moment of your birth.
Now, I'm not an astrologer.
So I really don't know
much about astrology.
But I know to--
I know how to decide
or how to discern
what the degree is of the
placement of your sun at birth
by looking at a chart.
And then that degree corresponds
to one of the principles.
So I know what your
primary principle
is, and so forth and
so on down the line.
So I can share with people
what their package is, what
their spiritual package is.
What are you here to be?
And if you learn to
be that, you're done.
That's your gift.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>KAPLAN: These
principles are divided
into three segments of 10.
There are 10 that we call
the Ascending Principles,
10 that we call the
Containing Principles,
and 10 that we call the
Descending Principles.
The Ascending Principles
are principles
that are deeply connected
to nature and to the earth.
The Descending
Principles are principles
that are connected to the
cosmos, to the galaxies,
to galactic energy.
And the Containing Principles
are principles that we--
that are connected to the
human, to the human realm.
So I often use the
metaphor of a tree,
that the Ascending
Principles are the roots.
The Containing
Principles are the trunk,
and the Descending
Principles are
the leaves and the branches.
So that's another thing that
we look at with a person.
If you have a lot of
Descending Principles
but not so many Containing
or Ascending Principles,
then your life is a
little more challenging,
because you're
kind of out there.
And you are now looking
for partnerships
to hold your kite string.
I've often said, if you don't
have a certain principle,
you will either marry
it or give birth to it
or go into partnership
with it in some way.
Because that way, there's--
that's how we look at the
balance in relationships.
>>REGINA: Quick question here.
Now, have you ever
seen that there
is some overlay with, say, a
person's astrological chart
in terms of whether they have
the same traits, these more
airier, ungrounded traits?
>>KAPLAN: You mean like in
terms of their-- the elements
in their astrological chart?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Uh-huh.
>>KAPLAN: Yeah,
I'm sure there are.
Like I said, though, not--
>>REGINA: It's always kind of
interesting when they overlay.
>>KAPLAN: But I'm not
as much of an astrologer
as I should be to really
answer that question well.
OK, so I'll give you a
couple of examples of each
of these kinds of principles.
Placement, this is
the first principle.
Placement is very deeply
connected to earth energy.
It's the kind of
principle that is--
that allows you to
understand nature.
So for example,
physicists will say,
no two quanta can identify the
same place at the same time,
the same space at the same time.
It's that.
Each quanta in form
has its own location.
You have to locate yourself
before anything else can
happen.
So people who have placement
in their Invisible Garment
patterns will often be people
who use their bodies really
well.
Dancers, I've found,
a lot of the people
who have come to me over
the years who are dancers
have placement in their chart.
Athletes, people who-- now,
each of these principles
also has a physical,
a place that it's
located in the physical
world, in the physical body.
It's not so much literally
your physical body
as it is this principle plays
that role in the cosmic body.
So placement is
located in the feet.
So placement is like the
feet of the cosmic body.
But I do find it interesting
that dancers and athletes have
placement, often,
in their chart.
My son is an athlete,
and he has placement
in a very important
place in his chart.
And it's just interesting
to me to watch how that--
>>REGINA: How it's expressed.
>>KAPLAN: Expresses in the body.
>>REGINA: So this would be
one of the principles in terms
of some of the unique genius
that they're bringing through
or opportunity.
>>KAPLAN: Absolutely, yes.
Absolutely.
Another ascending
principle is one
called Extension This also is--
it's about how life
longs to extend itself.
So I always see
this as those plants
in the garden that
have roots in the--
>>REGINA: The little suckers.
>>KAPLAN: Yeah.
And they just show up
all over everywhere,
because they're just constantly
looking for new places
to express.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KAPLAN: Extension
exists in the hands.
So you'll often find people
who are pianists, people
who are artists, cooks,
massage therapists, people who
use their hands a
lot, you'll often
find that principle in their
Invisible Garment pattern.
>>REGINA: So now, if this
principle were placed
in the position of the sun,
would that mean that is one
of their primary--
the primary principle
the need to work with?
>>KAPLAN: The primary principle.
Mm-hmm.
Exactly.
And in fact, I have a very good
friend who, when she was young,
she joined the military.
I'm going to say Air
Force, but I'm not
sure which branch
of the military.
So she was very young
when she joined.
So 25 years later, she was
only 45 or something, retired.
And she kind of sat
back and said, now,
what do I really want to be?
What do I want to do?
And she became a
massage therapist.
And her son is an extension.
Of course, she didn't
know that then.
But many years later
when she discovered that,
she realized what she had done.
And this is what--
this is what I mean
by being over doing.
What she had done is she
had let her beingness evoke
her doing this.
>>REGINA: And this
is really the key
for every human being in every
incarnation all the time.
And it's the thing we
tend to miss the most.
>>KAPLAN: Right.
Right.
Because culturally,
we have this idea
that we need to figure
out what to do and do it.
And in fact, that's the question
that we get asked so often
is, what do you do?
>>REGINA: Right.
What do I do about what?
[LAUGHTER]
>>KAPLAN: I hate that question.
>>REGINA: I hate
that question too.
>>KAPLAN: I have no
answer for that question.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah, I usually deflect it.
[LAUGHTER]
So.
we were talking about
the sun principle.
And we're going to get into
more of the actual principles
themselves.
But is it appropriate
to do that now,
get into an array of the
principles and examples of how
they've shown themselves or
bear themselves out in the world
before we get into some of the
other aspects, like the moon
and so forth?
>>KAPLAN: Yes.
If this is our principal one.
>>REGINA: OK let's hit it.
We have 30 principles, right?
>>KAPLAN: Right.
And I'm not going to talk
about all 30 of them.
>>REGINA: No, I know.
>>KAPLAN: Actually we talked
about a lot of them in the last
interview, so I'm--
>>REGINA: Yes.
And some people
will have seen them,
and some people will have not.
So kind of hit on
new ones that you
didn't focus on last time,
maybe a few of the most
important ones.
>>KAPLAN: All right, so now
in the containing department,
the Containing Principals,
the trunk of the tree,
one of the principals
is resistance.
And resistance as a
spiritual principle
is not about
pushback or refusing
to do what I want you to do.
It's about-- it's more
like being a resistor
in an electrical circuit.
>>REGINA: Oh, I see.
>>KAPLAN: The energy
comes through Hoover Dam
in the form of
heat, and then, it
runs through a
series of resistors
before it can show
up in your bathroom
to plug your blow dryer into.
You can't plug your blow
dryer directly into it.
So people who have resistance
in their Invisible Garment
are people who take
energy in in various
forms.
Sometimes it's in
forms of thought.
emotional form.
Sometimes it's in
more action forms.
They take it in, and they
transmute it and transform it
in their bodies and send
it back out in a way
that it can be
used in the world.
My favorite example of a person
whose sun was in resistance
is Joan of Arc.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>KAPLAN: So she
listened to her angels,
and she transformed
their energy into what
needed to be done for them.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's
a perfect example.
>>KAPLAN: I love that.
>>REGINA: That is.
That's beautiful OK,
give us a few more.
>>KAPLAN: Attraction.
Attraction is also a
Containing Principle.
And this is one of
the reasons that I
wish all books were more
like Harry Potter books,
where they change.
Because I understand attraction
now almost completely
differently than I did when
I wrote the definition down
in the book.
And I owe that partially to the
popularity of what people call
the law of attraction,
where if you want something,
you just think about it a
lot, and then you get it.
Attraction as a spiritual
principle is not that.
The metaphor I like
to use for attraction
is thinking about
a flower that stays
in the bud for a long,
long, long, long time.
And then someday, for some
reason that nobody knows,
the bud opens, and the
flower presents itself,
not to attract
things that it needs,
but to attract
things that need it.
So the flower opens, and
here come the butterflies.
And here come the bees,
and here come the hummers.
Because they've been
waiting for this gift.
And that's the way I look at
people who have attraction
in their garment patterns.
When they have really
opened to giving their gift,
everyone that needs them or
everything that needs them or--
example, my favorite
example of attraction
is John Fitzgerald Kennedy.
He was not the
favorite Kennedy child.
His older brother
was, apparently.
But when he finally
opened, he became the gift
that the entire country needed.
And so that's what I'm--
>>REGINA: And what's
interesting is
you say it takes a long
time for the bud to open,
so it's as though
the being has to go
through their own
maturity process.
Together, the forces, so when
the band does open and reveal
it, there's something to give.
>>KAPLAN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: It's vital and full.
>>REGINA: What are some
other examples of those,
of that particular attraction,
the principle of attraction
that you know of?
>>KAPLAN: Some other people?
I don't know of any other
people that would be famous.
But I do know you
know a lot of people
who have come to me who
didn't know what their job was
in the world, what their
place was in the world,
until they were 45,
50, 55 years old.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
And you found that the
sun was in that principle?
>>KAPLAN: Yeah.
Now, I don't know this,
because I don't know his name.
And I don't know his
astrological chart.
But I'm thinking
about the guy you
know on the commercial
who plays the most
interesting man in the world.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KAPLAN: Well, I read
an interview with him
recently, where he said
he went and he auditioned,
and he did the whole accent
thing and had a beard.
And he auditioned for it.
And then the people
who were looking
for this character for
this series of commercials
called his agent said,
we liked what he did.
And we really enjoyed it.
But we wanted somebody younger.
So the agent called
him and said,
they wanted somebody younger.
And he said, how could
anybody younger have
had all of those experiences?
They needed somebody older.
That's an example of
what I'm talking about.
Some of the principles, I think,
open and blossom a little bit
earlier.
But attraction, it has
to stay in that bud
until you really understand,
find out what it is.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
OK.
So another few principles
that we're working with--
and then I want to make a
comment on the Ascending
Principle, the very first one
we talked about of placement.
And that's the one
that had the dancers,
or was it-- yeah, the dancers.
I'm gonna ask you about that--
or make a comment later.
So let me write that down.
>>KAPLAN: OK.
>>REGINA: OK, go ahead.
>>KAPLAN: Well one of my
other favorite principles,
which is another one that
I would change in the book
if I could change the books
right now, is gratitude.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>KAPLAN: I was so excited
a couple of weeks ago.
I read an article
by a physicist--
no, a brain scientist.
And so he was talking about
what they have learned,
because now all the technology
they can do MRIs on your brain,
and what they've learned
about what parts of your brain
light up under
certain circumstances.
Well, it turns out that almost
all of the really negative
emotions, like self-doubt
and guilt and greed and all
those negative emotions
about yourself,
the synapses, the
circuits that light up,
are all right there
around the amygdala.
And so they stir up all
kind of fear and fight--
fight or flight thing.
What they then discovered
is, if they can get somebody
all wrapped up in greed
and self-pity and then say,
OK, now, pick up a
pen and write down
10 things for which
you are grateful,
changes the brain altogether.
>>REGINA: You can feel it.
>>KAPLAN: Different parts of
the brain light up altogether.
And it's, of course,
in the frontal lobes,
and it's in the brain
stem which lights up.
So that's pretty much a
definition of gratitude to me.
It's the principle that--
it's one of the
Descending Principles.
It's the principle that takes
you out of the me, me, me
thing that is damaging.
>>REGINA: Examples?
>>KAPLAN: Well, just so happens
that John Kennedy's moon
principle was also gratitude.
So he was attraction
and gratitude.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>KAPLAN: What a guy.
>>REGINA: Yeah, what a guy.
Yeah, so he was definitely
vulnerable on the planet.
>>KAPLAN: Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
But a guy who seemed to be
able to remember gratitude.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KAPLAN: To remember what
it is, that life is a gift.
And so therefore,
what else is there
to do but be in
receipt of the gift?
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK.
>>KAPLAN: Being able
we're to give the gift.
>>REGINA: John Kennedy again.
OK, some more.
>>KAPLAN: OK, one
more principle.
Silence.
Silence is-- it's
that principle that
erupts when you're able to
get your mind to be quiet.
And it's anything but silent.
It's sort of like as soon
as your mind is quiet
or your head brain
is quiet, your skull
becomes in attunement in
alignment with the universe.
And you're literally hearing
the music of the spheres.
And you are resonant with quite
an amazing galactic energy.
Favorite example in the silence
area is Albert Einstein.
>>REGINA: Oh, OK.
>>KAPLAN: I've read many, many
stories about how he would
anguish over a problem or
something that he was trying
to put together, and then, the
answer would come to him just
on awakening from a dream or
just in one of those moments--
I don't know whether he
was a meditator or not--
but just in those
moments when he
would be able to get
his brain to be quiet.
>>REGINA: There's
actually, I think
it's a Netflix series about him
out right now called "Genius"
and showing the way he worked
and the abstract way in which
his mind worked and how he would
come to his solutions, which
were almost like
a kid in a sandbox
playing on a certain level.
>>KAPLAN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: But that playful mind
allowing this to just bubble
through him.
>>KAPLAN: Yeah.
Oh, thanks.
I'll have to watch that.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
it's interesting,
because it also gets a lot
into his personal life.
And I think that was the
point of it is to kind of get
at the back story
of the real person,
not just the genius that brought
certain information through.
It's interesting.
So go ahead.
Yeah.
>>KAPLAN: Yeah.
So no, I was just going to say
that the advantage of knowing
your principles, in knowing
your Invisible Garment
is so profound, because
it keeps you sane.
You can always pull back from
whatever's going on out there,
and there's a lot going on out
there right now that that's
really troubling people.
You can always pull back
and say, let me just
get out of the way here.
Let me stop with my opinions
and my attitudes and my belief
systems and see how
my principle wants
to show up in this moment.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about
a situation in which someone
has come to you to have
you explain their Invisible
Garment to them.
And you discover that they're
living virtually the opposite
of their principles and what
their life looks like and then
when it becomes like.
Everybody likes to hear
those kinds of stories.
>>KAPLAN: Well, everybody except
the person who's living it.
>>REGINA: Who's
going through it.
[LAUGHTER]
>>KAPLAN: Yeah,
that is probably one
of the most difficult
conversations
that I ever have with anyone.
Because then, we have to
talk about the difference
in free will and willfulness.
>>REGINA: Yes, and ego.
>>KAPLAN: Right.
>>REGINA: And that's
where I wanted to go.
>>KAPLAN: We learn to talk
about how you can willfully
prevent yourself from allowing
your principles to express
through you.
And when you do that,
it's very painful.
>>REGINA: But don't you find
a huge percentage of people
actually do that, trying to
blast through on a concept
or idea or whatever
it is they've
patterned their life by?
>>KAPLAN: I don't know if I
would say huge percentage.
I would say most
of the people who
come to me for private
consultations, when I start
talking to them about
their principles,
can look back in time
and say, oh, there
was that decision that I made
that I didn't really make,
something that just showed up.
And it was, oh, I can see now.
It was that principle
operating through me.
And so then I can
grab on to that
and say, yes,
remember that feeling.
Memorize that feeling.
What would it be like if you
let everything in your life
happen that way?
So yes, when people come
to me because they're
struggling with
something, and I have
to talk to them about
stubbornness and free will
and fear and the belief
that what they were told
in school about how they
should be may be wrong,
those are difficult
conversations.
But they're also
very liberating.
>>REGINA: That's what
I'm kind of looking
to hear is where someone
has embraced that,
and they've
instituted that change
to honor that particular
principle in themselves,
and boom, you do have
a flip of their lives.
And you do see that happen?
>>KAPLAN: Yes.
Oh, absolutely.
Absolutely.
And even in myself, I
see it all the time.
I see something
happening in the world
that I respond to so differently
than I did when I was a younger
woman when I
thought I knew stuff
and/or when I thought
I was supposed
to make decisions and
follow through them.
>>REGINA: What is your
primary principle?
>>KAPLAN: Humility.
>>REGINA: And what's that?
How does that show itself?
>>KAPLAN: That's one of
the Descending Principles.
And humility is a
principle that is
about self-knowing,
authentic self-knowing.
It's not about being a doormat.
I think I mentioned this
in our last interview.
The angels told me it
is equally as arrogant
to think too little
of yourself as it is
to think too much of yourself.
So humility comes right there
on that line right in between.
So what it does is that it
demands of me that I make
sure I'm not mouthing
some opinions, some ideas,
some concept, some belief system
that is not mine and that is--
that may have lies
wrapped in it.
>>REGINA: Oh, I see.
>>KAPLAN: So I
have to constantly
be digging for the lies that
might be expressing themselves
through me.
>>REGINA: And what
about in relationship?
Because I assume that there's
a heavy relational component
to this whole system.
>>KAPLAN: Yes.
>>REGINA: So if you're
humility, and your husband,
who works in the film
industry, what is he?
>>KAPLAN: He's creativity.
>>REGINA: Oh,
well, there you go.
[LAUGHTER]
He was already well-placed.
>>KAPLAN: Yeah, but that is a
very interesting piece of work.
Your marriage is
infinitely easier
if you know what your
spouse's principles are,
and you can observe them
living their principles.
Your parenting is
infinitely easier
if you know what your
child's principle source.
>>REGINA: Now that's where
I wanted to go with this.
Yes.
>>KAPLAN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So let's talk about
some relationship situations
that you've read
for, for example,
and what the
misunderstanding was
and how they were able to come
to a higher place with it.
>>KAPLAN: Very often, very
often couples think differently.
They are two people
that think differently.
So let's say one
person's mental body--
they're mercury principle,
but their mental body is
in silence--
and the other person's
is in creativity.
So this person operates by
talking through and playing
with and imagining,
and this person
needs solitude and silence.
So if they don't recognize that
in each other, what they end up
doing is trying to make the
other person be more like them.
So the silence person is going
to say, stop talking so much.
And the creativity
person is gonna
say, why don't you
ever talk to me?
Why don't we share?
>>REGINA: So how do they
find the middle ground there?
Once they recognize that's
their primary principle,
then how do they bridge that?
Just by acceptance?
>>KAPLAN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Just acceptance.
>>KAPLAN: Just by
understanding what's going on.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And let the other
person be as they are.
>>KAPLAN: Yeah.
Because the thing
that we tend to do
as humans is if you're different
from me in any way whatsoever,
one of us has to be wrong.
And you're trying to make me
wrong by talking so much when--
you know what I mean?
When you put that--
I call this putting down your
end of the rope in tug-of-war.
You can't play tug-of-war
if one person puts down
their end of the rope.
If you understand that that
person needs to express
and this person needs
solitude, then it's fine.
Then, it works.
It's a mutual admiration
kind of thing.
>>REGINA: What are, if you
can bring to mind an example
of a couple, that was
just not getting--
they weren't getting along,
they weren't understanding
each other in the way the
other thought, and what
those principles were, and
some of the beauty of what
happened after?
>>KAPLAN: I have to preface this
by saying it's also cultural.
Because we do live in
a patriarchal world.
Even though it's
changing, we still
live in a patriarchal system.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KAPLAN: So a lot of times
when people get married,
especially if they marry
young, there's an agreement.
So I'm thinking of a
couple who came to me.
And she was--
I think her
principle was beauty.
I think her primary
And his primary
principle was focus.
So there was this agreement--
I don't know that they knew
that this was an agreement--
but she was supposed
to be pretty.
And she was connected to nature,
and she had stones and spirits
around the house.
And he was focused and
masculine and in charge.
And whenever she started
stepping a little bit more
into her own power
and wasn't just
the trophy wife or the pretty
one, he was threatened.
His position was threatened.
But when he tried to
take control over that,
her position was threatened.
So when they came
to me, and we really
talked about what beauty
is and what focus is
and how they can
actually combine
in a really
incredible way, then,
without threatening
each other, they
can be inspirational
for each other.
It changed.
It changed for them.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
You broached the subject
just a little bit ago,
and I wanted to go more into
the notion of using this
for rearing our children and
how some of the experiences
you've had--
in a little bit, I want to get
to the family with the three
kids that you mentioned in
one of your articles I read,
that each one of them had
a different principle.
And I'll remind you
of those principles,
and you'll know which
family I'm talking about.
>>KAPLAN: Good.
>>REGINA: I know it's hard
when you've written something.
It's like, oh, that
was forever ago.
But let's talk about the
use of it in the family.
>>KAPLAN: Well, it
just kind of almost
goes without saying
when you think about it.
If you know what your
child's gift is and you
know that these
formative years need
to be set up for him or
her to deliver that gift,
then, you make
different decisions
than you would if you're just
trying to socialize the kid
and make the kid be nice
and make the kid know
what the rules are.
Now, one of the really
interesting things
that has happened
since I spoke with you
last is that I've been
working with mothers
of autistic children.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
>>KAPLAN: And it's an amazing--
>>REGINA: Talk about this.
Because we tend to
think that they're
trapped inside some reality that
we can't reach, but you found
that's not true.
>>KAPLAN: Not necessarily true
at all, or really, not true
at all.
>>REGINA: Not true, yeah.
>>KAPLAN: It's a spectrum
that we're not used to
and we're not familiar with.
And it's often a spectrum
that brings forth
behaviors that are not
generally accepted in public.
And so of course, the parents
have to adjust to that.
But if you can also know what
that child's primary gift is
and what that child's
mental body influence is,
you can find very different
language and very different
ways of communicating.
Some of these children
are completely nonverbal.
And so there have to be
communication systems set up
within the family dynamic
that are nonverbal
in order to include and
encompass that child's gift.
>>REGINA: Did you start this--
on this path as a result of
relationship with Suzy Miller?
>>KAPLAN: Suzy Miller and
her work with autistic kids?
Yes.
Yes, as a matter of fact, I did.
>>REGINA: OK.
OK, good.
Well, if anybody's
interested, they
can watch my interview with Suzy
Miller in the archives as well.
But let's talk of some
specific things that you saw
occur when working
with these kids.
>>KAPLAN: Well, what
was really interesting
was that in the beginning of
working with these mothers,
they needed to know
their principles first.
>>REGINA: Right, so they
could come from their position
of strength.
>>KAPLAN: Right.
Right.
So when I started this class,
the first class that I started,
I thought we would be spending
the whole time talking
about the children.
And we weren't.
We were talking
about the mothers.
Because I think the
first thing that you
have to do whenever you are in
a situation that you don't get,
is know yourself.
The first thing that you have to
do as a mother of a child who's
not just perfectly fitting in
the boxes is you go to a why
me?
It can sometimes
be an oy, why me?
Or it can sometimes be why
did this child choose me?
But whatever it is, the first
thing that we worked with
was having the mothers
understand themselves.
And then the next thing that you
do is you take your principles.
And then you take your
child's principles.
And you see where the
crossover points are and/or
where the differences are.
It's similar to what
I was just talking
about with married couples.
If you think one way and your
child thinks another way,
or if your emotional
body is perfectly stable
and your child's emotional
body is in randomness,
rather than trying
to get that child
to control their
emotional body, you
provide a space in which that
emotional body's expression
is appropriate.
So it's just a very deep but
pretty specific and concrete
way to deal with relationships.
And then you put it out
with the whole family.
You look at the
whole tribal cloak.
As a matter of fact, I
want to thank you for this.
A woman listened to
our interview before.
She contacted me
immediately, and she said,
The Invisible Garment
needs its own web site.
And let me give you some ideas.
Let me send you some ideas.
So we now have our own website,
theinvisiblegarment.com.
>>REGINA: That's good.
>>KAPLAN: And so she has
become a very, very good friend
and a very strong
endorser of this work.
And she's the one who
gave me the term tribal
garment, where you just look
at the whole story of what's
going on.
And then you can
also go back, if you
can find your parents
information and your siblings'
information--
>>REGINA: Do you have to
have the birth times or just
the birth date?
>>KAPLAN: You can actually,
if you have a birth date
and place, you can know enough.
You can look up a chart and
just call it a noon birth time.
>>REGINA: Because most people
don't know their parents' birth
times.
>>KAPLAN: Right, birth times.
But the sun stays in
the same place all day.
And Mercury and Venus and Mars
stay in the same place all day.
And all the galactic ones
stay in the same place
for a long time, so you
know enough from just that.
That's true with
business people, too.
If you're looking at what's
going on in a business
community, you
don't have to say,
I need your birth
time, date, and place.
You can say, when
is your birthday?
Oh, really, where were you born?
[CH CH CH CH] Go
look that person up,
and you can start
looking at that kind
of tribal interfacing.
>>REGINA: Have you worked
with businesses on that level
before?
>>KAPLAN: I haven't.
I haven't.
>>REGINA: That would
be interesting.
>>KAPLAN: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: In one of your
articles or the book
I was reading about, the
particular aspect of the moon
principle and kids, in
particular, understanding
your kid's moon principle.
So why would that be?
Why would the moon come in as a
particular influence with kids
in particular?
>>KAPLAN: I understand
what you're asking.
The moon principle
is your mastery.
So the moon principle
is something
that you come in
with from birth,
from past lifetimes
or other dimensions,
or however that is,
however that works.
The moon principle is so
deeply embedded in you
that you can't imagine that
everybody doesn't have it,
whatever your mastery is.
So kids, when
they're really young,
that's basically
what they're doing.
That's what basically--
>>REGINA: They're playing
out what they came in with.
>>KAPLAN: Yes.
Yeah, so if you understand
your child's moon principle,
then you understand what a
lot of that behavior is about.
An example that I'm
remembering from one of my kids
is my son was
probably about three
when he came in one
morning and just grabbed me
around the knees and
started hugging me.
And he said, you're the
best mommy I have ever had.
And I was like, I think I'm
the only mommy you've ever had.
And he said, oh, no.
I've had a lot of moms.
Some of them were mean.
Some of them were fat.
Some of them were really ugly.
I just never had a mom like you.
I was just kind of
blown away by that,
and then, I discovered his
moon principle is memory.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>KAPLAN: So oh, right.
So he came in with--
now, interestingly,
he does not remember that event.
Every time I asked him
about it he says, no,
I don't remember ever
saying that to you.
And I don't remember any
of my others mothers.
>>REGINA: Well it starts
fading as they get older.
>>KAPLAN: Well, right.
As soon as they get
into school and it's not
appropriate to remember
your past lives,
you learn very quickly
not to remember them.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So my son was just
about three and a half,
three and three-quarters--
something like that--
years old when a very similar
thing happened when he was
telling me--
I was making a comment to him.
And he said, don't
worry about it, Mom.
I did the same
thing to you before.
Pardon me?
So we started talking.
And I said, what are
you talking about?
Oh, a long time ago.
Well, were we?
In a place called England.
And he started telling me this
entire past life and who I was,
what had happened to his wife,
the mother, and what with me.
And it was really fascinating,
because it helped actually
fill in some pictures
about our personal history
together that was-- a piece
that had been missing,
he actually supplied
it in that memory.
I said well, when
did you see this?
And he said, oh
when I was supposed
to be taking a nap at
Busy Bee, nursery school.
He was looking at past lives.
So that's really interesting.
>>KAPLAN: Yeah.
Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: So as
far as kids go, you
say they also have
an ethical body.
What does that mean?
>>KAPLAN: Everybody
has an ethical body.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>KAPLAN: The
ethical body is read
by your Ascendant, what was
the Ascendant the moment
you were born?
And that's one of the reasons
that you need birth time.
If you're gonna find out
what their ethical body is,
you need birth time,
because you need to know
exactly what the Ascendant was.
>>REGINA: Right.
So explain what the
ethical body is.
>>KAPLAN: The ethical
body is the principle
that influences you when
you are making decisions,
making big decisions.
So it's interesting.
That's one of those
times when people
can look back and think about
some of the big decisions
that you made--
where to go to school
or who to marry
or when to have children or
some of those bigger decisions
that really affect your life.
Almost all of them, or at
least the ones that were right,
were when you just
kind of sat back,
and your ethical
principle came forward.
And the ones that were wrong the
ones that you willfully made,
where you might have been going
against your ethical principle,
stand out as wrong.
>>REGINA: So what happens
when your ethical principle
is beauty?
What's that look like?
>>KAPLAN: Beauty is a principle
that is connected to like
cellular--
what's the word I'm trying to
look for-- balance, I guess.
It's connected to the
stones, the minerals,
the beautiful stones where
you can see the makeup
of their stone of their cells.
>>REGINA: How does
that be applied
in an ethics perspective?
>>KAPLAN: You would
always be looking
for what creates
balance and harmony
and what's going to create
the most efficient expression,
choice that's going to create
the most efficient expression.
Beauty is a difficult principle
for some people because
of the way our culture
defines beauty.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KAPLAN: And so a lot of times,
I'll find one of two things
with people who have beauty
in their garment pattern.
One is that they are pretty.
They are pretty people, and they
have spent their whole lives
being frustrated because their
inner self is never noticed.
They can't get to the
substance of themselves,
because there's so
much projection on them
for being pretty.
And then the other
one is the opposite.
They don't have
symmetrical features,
and they don't have
thin, lithe bodies.
And they have always battled
with not being pretty enough.
>>REGINA: I see.
>>KAPLAN: So that
one is one that
specifically requires an
internal investigation in order
to express.
>>REGINA: Do you
find that principle
shows up more often in women
than men, or is it equal?
>>KAPLAN: That's a hard
question for me to answer,
because most of my
clients are women.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
There ya go.
All right.
Of course.
OK, let's talk about dream time,
how the Invisible Garment shows
up in our dream time.
>>KAPLAN: Well,
this has been really
an interesting unfoldment.
First of all, I have
to tell you that what
I learned about dreaming when
I was asleep for two years
is counter to what
almost everyone else
teaches about dreaming.
My teachers told me that
when we go to sleep,
our bodies begin a
physiological regeneration.
Our consciousness
begins a journey
back towards source in
order to plug-in, something
like an iPhone, just to get back
to the soul, to be its source.
On that journey, consciousness
encounters all possibility,
all potential, all
probability, all information.
When we start to wake up,
then, our personal minds
writes a story
about what we just
encountered in consciousness.
So yes, that story
appears to be personal.
Because we use personal--
our personal lexicon
of images and ideas and people
and faces and experiences
to write the story.
But the actual event
was an energetic event
in collective consciousness.
>>REGINA: Right.
When you're removed from this
realm, it's not recognizable.
It's not something
you would bring back
without some interpretation
and story from the mind.
>>KAPLAN: Right.
So when we're listening
to dreams, for example,
in my dream circles, we
say, what did this person
experience in
consciousness that inspired
her to write this story?
So we're looking for that
experience beyond the story.
After The Invisible
Garment work came in,
we started noticing that
if you pay attention
to where the moon is
when you have that dream
and what other planets the
moon might be aspecting,
this story has something
to do with your principle
in that planet.
All right, so let
me explain this.
Let's say the moon
is in the sign
that it was in the night of your
birth, the day of your birth.
So in my case, it was Gemini.
So let's say I'm having
a dream on a Gemini moon.
And the lunar calendar
tells me that it
was in a positive aspect
to Mercury that night
when I had that dream.
My Gemini principle is movement.
My Mercury principle, or my
moon principle is movement.
My Mercury principle is silence.
So in trying to understand
the story that I wrote,
I'm also learning something
about the relationship
between movement and silence,
those two principles.
It's very interesting
when you start
seeing that there are
patterns to how you dream,
and there is deeper information
about the principles
that you live in your dream.
It's complex.
Yet, it requires work.
You have to pay attention, and
you have to do your own work.
And every dreamer
dreams differently.
>>REGINA: Right.
But this is one of those
languages you can interpret
through, Invisible Garment.
>>KAPLAN: Yes.
>>REGINA: What about other
things that come into dreams?
You were also talking
about factors,
like color and sound and
such, and how that factors in.
>>KAPLAN: OK.
A few years later, after the
Invisible Garment work came in,
I had yet another
mystical experience.
And in this case, I was shown
a series of concentric balls,
spheres that were color.
And I could see that
within these colors
the principles were located.
So there were four principles
in each of these spheres
that I saw.
And then, they turned
around, and they--
these spheres
turned around and on
what I call the other
side of the rainbow,
there were different colors.
And the principles had moved.
So I was being shown, I felt,
that the principles participate
with each other in
a way that creates
a collective energy that
flows through our lives
but also flows through
our cultures, that
flows through our
societies, and whatever.
So you can look at the dreams
and the colors that show up
in the dreams, and those colors
will give you information
about that particular flow.
Let me get more concrete.
So let's take blue,
the color blue.
In this work that I was
taught, the way I was shown it
in this mystical download,
blue is a frequency that--
it's a metaphor for frequency.
I'm not talking about
literally your sweater.
I'm talking about blue
as a frequency that is--
it influences culture and
people in very specific,
rational thinking.
So blue is the
sphere of science.
Blue is the sphere
just give me the facts,
and I'll work with them.
Green is the sphere of
balance and harmony,
so green is the
sphere of healing
and wholeness and the new
sciences, so to speak.
On the other side
of the rainbow,
blue and green
combine to, what I
call, turquoise, that new way
of looking at healing and fact,
bringing them together to place
them in a contextual context
so that it's a deeper
level of truth.
It's a more evolved
The other side of the
rainbow is an evolution
from where we are now.
So if you take the principle
purity, which is in blue,
and take it to the other side
of the rainbow in turquoise,
it becomes a principle that
is looking for the right way
to speak truth.
So if turquoise
is in your dream,
then you can recognize
that you are perceiving,
or that you did perceive,
something about that logos,
that healed thought, pure
thought word turquoise energy.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>KAPLAN: Does that
make sense to you?
>>REGINA: Yeah, it does.
It does.
It's layered, and it's complex.
The system is very layered.
>>KAPLAN: But this
color information
is so valuable,
because it helps you
see the world through
the perspective of how
all of these energies, how
all of these frequencies
are trying to evolve society.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Yes.
>>KAPLAN: It takes
it out of the--
my opinion about what should
be happening and into the
let me look at what's actually
happening perspective.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Anyway, that's fascinating.
I personally have a love
affair with color myself.
And years ago when there
was very little known on it,
I read every book and used
to teach color therapy.
And it has a profound
effect on our understanding
and being able to work
with forces, and of course,
all the well-known work
with color in the sciences
and light and such
from the '30s and '40s
where they were using
it in hospitals.
But in any event,
it's a worthy endeavor
to follow through on
this study of the colors.
>>KAPLAN: Right.
Yeah, I wish we had had time
to get into a little bit more.
This is probably the
most interesting part
of all of the work
that I've done.
I want to say one
thing before we close.
>>REGINA: Yes, do.
>>KAPLAN: So my web
master and I are
going to offer some very
specific things for people who
have watched this interview.
>>REGINA: Oh, lovely.
So what's the code word?
>>KAPLAN: The code word is Gaia.
>>REGINA: Gaia.
Surprise.
>>KAPLAN: Yeah, so they'll
be available on the web
site, theinvisiblegarment.com.
>>REGINA: So they put in
the little code word, Gaia,
and then there is something
there for them to--
>>KAPLAN: There are four or
five different options there
for classes on
Invisible Garment,
for classes on the color work,
for combinations of classes
for private sessions with me.
There'll be special offers.
>>REGINA: Oh, very nice.
That's very generous of you.
Thank you so much.
And it's good to get a
little deeper overlay
in our second chat here.
>>KAPLAN: Thanks for having me.
>>REGINA: Thank you.
Again, the name of the book
is "The Invisible Garment,"
which you can find on Amazon
and other booksellers.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[MUSIC PLAYING]